There's a dawning realization,
especially in the labs, the acceleration
is going so vertical that what you can
do behind a keyboard with AI is going to
saturate. When that happens, the next
frontier is the physical world.
Robotics, manufacturing,
industrialization.
>> You're living in the future and
designing it.
>> There's probably more change in war than
there is in consumer electronics. In the
next 2 years, we need to invest a lot
more in drones than in aircraft
carriers.
>> Just imagine 100,000 drones coming out
of China just at us. I do feel that we
need to re-industrialize the country
significantly to be safe in a military
sense. I would really like to retach
ourselves how to make things at scale,
how to be more independent. People that
are your allies now may not be in the
future.
>> You worked with some of the most
legendary successful builders. Steve
Jobs, Mark Zuckerberg, Sam Alman.
>> Sam is really good at saying why not
more? Why not 100x or 10,000x? You're
thinking too small. For Steve, the bar
he held for the company for technical
talent and for excellence was not
wavering.
>> What does it take to create a robot that
feels human and connected?
>> If you walk into a room and a robot's
just like like it's creepy. You want
these devices to be non-threatening,
appear soft, reactive to you, Pixar,
Disney are probably the world's best at
doing this type of design work.
>> There's a meteor called memory prices
that are coming for consumer hardware
and robotics and physical AI. We're in
trouble as an industry.
>> Today, my guest is Caitlyn Kalinowski.
Caitlyn is one of the most soughtafter
and accomplished hardware leaders in
Silicon Valley. She was part of the
original unibody MacBook Pro teams and
technical lead on the MacBook Air and
Mac Pro at Apple. She led the AR glasses
hardware team at Meta, including the
team behind Orion, their most advanced
AR product. Before that, she ran the VR
hardware team at Meta, where she helped
design all of their incredible VR
devices like the Rift and the Quest.
Most recently, she was at OpenAI,
helping build their robotics and
hardware division from scratch. Robots
and hardware and physical AI are so hot
right now. Every AI company, and so many
startups are launching, building AI
hardware products, and Caitlyn has been
at the center of this emerging field for
decades. This conversation goes in a lot
of different directions, many that I did
not expect, and I hope to do a lot more
episodes on the hardware side of
building over the next few months.
Before we get into it, don't forget to
check out lenny's productass.com for an
incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you
Caitlyn Kalinowski.
Caitlyn, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you so much for having me. I'm
excited to be here. We're going to go in
a bunch of different directions. I'm
going to bounce around. I want to talk
about VR. So much money, so many
resources. So many smart people have
been working on VR for so long. Meta
spent, I don't know, 10 billion dollars.
Like they renamed the company Meta to
lean into VR as the future of this
metaverse that we're going to be living
through. Feels like a lot of people are
leaning out now. Feels like Meta
stepping back. Apple's stepping back
with the Vision Pro in spite of the
incredible hardware that everyone that
you built that your team built. just
like I' I've got a couple of the
devices. It's just like a magical
experience that you've unlike anything
you've ever experienced still has not
caught on. What happened? Is there still
a future where VR catches on or is the
future kind of AR and something else? I
don't think I would have guessed exactly
what happened here, but the way I look
at it is VR helped us understand how to
orient things in space relative to a
simulated world and the real world and
connect those two. Um, we figured out
SLAM, which was how to how to do
positioning in space using cameras. We
figured out a lot of depth uh
applications of depth sensors. We
figured out how humans um perceive
visual data in space. And all of that
actually, while it's great for VR, and I
think VR gaming is a really interesting
um it is kind of a niche, but I think
it's an interesting niche. What I see
now is in robotics, all of these
technologies are being used because you
need to understand
how the robot is moving through space.
You need to understand how far it is
from everything. You need to understand
if you're wearing a VR headset and
driving the robot. It's the same real
technology. And so for me, I view it as
a step in a long technological um arc.
And to be honest, as an as someone who's
not using VR a lot right now, I'm really
glad that we did it. But I don't think
it I expected it to be big obviously or
or wouldn't have been working in Oculus.
And I think maybe the social aspect of
having something in front of your face
um is part of why it didn't take off.
And I think that we learned of course
with Google Glass how important that is
as well. And so when we tried to make it
social um it's hard to make it social
when you have you know your face
covered.
>> That is interesting. So just like the
investment and uh innovation that
happened that uh that went into VR has
actually proven to be really useful and
so it feels like the companies that have
put a lot of effort into that and money
into that have are ahead on the next
step. So is that where you think things
go? What's kind of like where do you
think things are going? Is it AR glasses
something else? What's kind of the
future of this?
>> I believe in AR glasses as part of the
future because
I I do think looking down at your phone
all the time is not great for us as
social as social creatures. So, if you
can maintain social connections and get
information, that's where I think we're
headed.
Orion, the AR glasses we worked on, I
worked on most recently are a bit ahead
of their time because they're using
waveguides and microlleds that are not
quite ready for mass production. The
yields just aren't there. The cost is
still high. I think that's absolutely a
path that AR glasses are likely to take.
And as we figure out the input to those
glasses, like how do you communicate
with them when you're on the move, when
you're in public, how do you communicate
quietly, silently, um, with them? I
think once we start to figure out some
of those, um, challenges that having a
display that's mostly off that you can
turn on when you want it to be on seems
like part of the future. So, that's part
of it. The other part is there's this
lineage of technology going through VR
and then AR and now in I'm using the
term robotics, physical AI, but you
really have to step back and look at
autonomous vehicles, drones, obviously
robots, um, uh, autonomy period
manufacturing, like all of these
technologies are going to need the same
the same piece parts, the same pieces
that we built in the AR VR spectrum.
>> It's interesting with VR there's this
idea with when you build product,
there's always this question when
something doesn't work. Is it just like
you executed it badly or the idea was
just a bad idea? And it's always hard to
know. Feels like with the AR it's just
like so much effort was put into making
it work just like for a decade many
decades and just has not worked. So it's
like nice that we know okay there's
nothing we can really do right now to
make this work. I completely agree with
you. The issue is just like I don't want
to sit on my couch disconnected from the
world and even if I could see people
through it, it's just like I'm just
gonna I don't need this. It's not that
big of a deal. and AR you're going to
just start getting more and more larger
and larger displays. But the great thing
about Orion is you got 70 degree field
of view binocular. So with the prototype
you got to sense what this is really
going to be like in the future. It's
very hard to describe how it feels to
use a pair of glasses like this. But
when you do, you suddenly are like oh
like I feel immersed. It's the field of
view is wide enough. I feel immersed and
it's becomes pretty clear that I think I
think this is part of where the future's
headed. This episode is brought to you
by our season's presenting sponsor, Work
OS. What do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor,
Versell, Replet, Sierra, Clay, and
hundreds of other winning companies all
have in common? They are all powered by
work OS. If you're building a product
for the enterprise, you've felt the pain
of integrating single signon, skim,
arbback, audit, logs, and other features
required by large companies. work OS
turns those deal blockers into drop-in
APIs with a modern developer platform
built specifically for B2B SAS.
Literally every startup that I'm an
investor in that starts to expand up
market ends up working with Work OS. And
that's because they are the best.
Whether you are a seedstage startup
trying to land your first enterprise
customer or a unicorn expanding
globally, work OS is the fastest path to
becoming enterprise ready and unblocking
growth. It's essentially Stripe for
enterprise features. Visit works.com to
get started or just hit up their Slack
where they have actual engineers waiting
to answer your questions. Workos allows
you to build faster with delightful
APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to works.com to
make your app enterprise ready today.
Okay, I want to talk about robots,
robotics. I was meeting with uh a bunch
of Princeton students a couple months
ago and we they're they're kind of like
compsai students and they were telling
me that enrollment in compsai at
Princeton is down trending down and I
confirmed this is actually true at a lot
of universities. There's a lot of charts
that show compsite enrollment down and
where it's actually going up is is
hardware robotics which I imagine as
someone that has been in this field for
a long time is very weird because it's
never been that popular. Just how does
how does it feel to feel like oh wow
everyone's getting it now? It's very
odd. Uh, everyone is suddenly asking
about hardware and robots and the
physical world and it's never been the
sexy career. It's always been the thing
that you went into cuz you loved it. It
never paid the same as these other
careers. Um, it was never kind of at the
forefront of how we talk about things
with the possible exception of Apple
obviously and the hardware lineage at
Apple. Um, so it's it's great in some
ways and it's very odd in others. What's
uh surprisingly hard about hardware? A
lot of software companies, a lot of
people are just like, "Okay, cool. We're
going to build some hardware. That's the
future. That's the moat now." And they
get into it and they're like, "What the
heck?" What are some things that maybe
people don't think about when they think
about, "Okay, we're going to build some
hardware." What are some of the
surprising challenges that come up?
>> I like to talk to computer science folks
about it this way. So, computer science
folks, as you know, they write code and
then they compile the code often and
then they run the code and debug it. But
they can compile their code every day,
you know, every hour, whatever they need
to do. In hardware, we only get to
compile our code quote unquote like four
or five times.
And
>> four or five times a year or
>> total,
>> okay? Ever.
>> Right? So if you're building hardware,
you redesign it in CAD, you know, for
every major build and then you have to
release it. And once it's released, you
compile it the last time you release it
for mass production. If it's a mass
production device, that's it. You're
done. You can't ship over there updates.
So, we have a different approach. We
have to have a different approach which
is more conservative. Um, you have to do
more of the reliability checks and tests
in line with the program because once
you compile that last time, you're done.
You make all the parts, you put them
together, they're out in the world. the
only alternative is, you know, is to um
ship something new to replace it a
couple years later. And so we have to be
more conservative and we have to take
our time because if you think about it,
a product that says sells millions, if
you have a graph of all the parts put
together on any different part of the of
the device, uh you have a curve, you're
in the plus and minus three sigma or
more, right? So meaning if you have two
parts that go together, you're going to
get the smallest version of this one and
the largest version of this one, and
you're going to have to put those
together across the board. People don't
think about this that much, but the part
variance is pretty high.
>> And so we've got to solve for that last
half a percent in the process of
building so that when we compile our
last time, when we build our last time,
it's done. And we're not going to have
we're going to have a high yield. we're
gonna be able to make them and and make
money on them effectively and we won't
have very many returns. And so that's
kind of the game that we're playing.
>> Sounds so hard and complicated. They're
just like software is so nice. You just
write some code, ship it, it's great. Uh
why do you think people are getting so
into robots and hardware now? What's
kind of the driving trend? Yeah, what
I'm seeing in the, you know, in the AI
world in San Francisco
is there's a dawning realization,
especially in the labs, I think, that
the acceleration is going so vertical
that what you can do behind a keyboard
with AI is going to saturate. Now, I
don't know when it's going to saturate.
Nobody else knows either. But when that
happens, the next the next frontier is
the physical world. And so what I see
happening is the labs, big tech startups
are all realizing at the same time,
okay,
this is coming. We're going to have
complex
uh systems that can solve problems in
the digital world very very quickly. We
already have them. They're going to get
better and more comprehensive and more
capable. If you think about that as a
frontier,
you can see the end of that tunnel. Now,
I don't know when it's going to be
again, but we can see that that's going
to saturate at some point or or at least
people think it will. And when that
happens, the next frontier is hardware.
The next frontier is robotics,
manufacturing, industrialization,
um the sensing layer in the real world,
the ability to move uh objects in the
real world, and eventually uh we hope
space.
>> So, one of the most interesting lines of
development is these humanoid robots.
It's kind of like, you know, our meat
brains are always more attracted to
robots that look like us and act like
us.
>> Um, there's a few companies very ahead.
There's uh Optimus, Tesla, there's uh
Figure, there's Neo, there's a few
others. What's your sense on just the
current state of these humanoids and
kind of where I don't know like how
close are we to humanoids being around
us?
>> We might be close. I have like many
others safety concerns about large
strong humanoids operating right next to
people because we have to have enough
data to show that that's safe. Um there
are some designs and 1x Neo is a good
example of this that have made
significant safety uh considerations in
their designs and pulled mass inwards
essentially which is a lot safer. Softer
robots is safer. Just to clarify, you're
saying they're lighter and this so they
the impact of a robot hitting you is
less.
>> Yeah. The part that might hit you, which
in this case might be the arm
>> if it's lighter and softer. There's two
aspects. You have the arm moving through
space and then you have the actuator
that's rotating. So you have to add um
add up the energy essentially for both
of those things. Um and uh so that's an
impact thing that you have to worry
about. then you have to worry about the
compliance of the arm. If it's just
hard, then you know the impulse is high.
But if it's soft and compressible, then
the impulse is is lower. And so you
really have to be thinking about this
when you have robots around people. So
in my world, in my worldview, the
humanoid robots are still prototypes.
Um, and they're advanced prototypes.
What we need to do is show that this
works at all, which is kind of where
we're at right now. Once we have working
prototypes, then usually, at least in my
field, what you do is you uh uh you
continue to revise them to make them
cheaper, easier to manufacture, higher
yield, and safer. And I think this is
what's going to happen next. So, they're
not quite in my in my mind, they're not
quite ready yet. Now, you can get uh uh
you can get a Chinese robot that can do
all kinds of things for you, but if you
look at the booklet, it says, "Hey, you
can't be within 3 ft. No human can be
within 3 ft of this robot and you're not
going to see very many robots that are
not that are strong enough to do
meaningful work that don't have that uh
that that warning right now.
>> That is so interesting. Uh it's funny to
hear that. At the same time, there's
these nunchuck wielding robots in China
doing dances with with other folks. Uh
I've never thought about just that part
of it, like the the the impact they can
have if they go ary. I want to come back
to that, but just like timelinewise,
what's your sense realistically when
humanoid robots are walking around the
streets in people's homes kind of at
scale?
>> At scale is the problem in my mind. At
scale is uh a huge challenge. Now, for
me, in my background, at scale means
millions usually. Um, but let's even say
hundreds of thousands.
You've got to get a good design that's
running. Then you've got to make it
reliable enough that it can keep running
day data day to day without a lot of
human intervention or or repair. And
that's its own problem. But the first
problem you have is supply chain. And
this is going to be uh something that I
hope that we can talk about a little bit
more. But every single part that goes
into that robot's coming from somewhere.
And many of these parts may become more
restricted or difficult to make. and it
may be harder to assemble the sub
assemblies and the meaningful parts of
the robot here in this country. So
there's a very complex supply chain
dependency right now on robots like
humanoids but also other robots that we
have to that we have to figure out. Um,
and a lot of people are trying to move
production here to the United States,
which is very challenging because we
don't have great actuator companies here
yet, for example.
>> And the actuator is like the little arm,
uh, I don't know, how would you describe
an actuator to a non-rootics person?
>> Yeah, the actuator is the motor. So, you
put power into it, electricity into it,
and you get motion out of it.
>> Cool. And most of these robots have a
rotating rotor essentially that then has
gearing on it that then um powers the
limb or powers the head or the fingers
or whatever else. So they could be
small, they could be large.
>> Okay, awesome. I hear the word a lot.
I'm like I don't know exactly what it
means. Thank you for explaining it. I
want to talk about the supply chain
stuff more because I know you think a
lot about this. What's kind of like the
state of the union on the supply chain
for say robotics? What's going on? What
are the pieces? What's what are the
challenges? So the way to think about it
is you can start with raw materials and
magnets is a good place to start. So we
need to be able to get the magnets the
raw magnets for example. Then we need to
be able to process them. Then we need to
be able to integrate them into actuators
and build the actuators around them.
Then we need to be able to integrate
those actuators into subcomponents or
robots themselves. And each layer of
this chain has essentially been
outsourced over the last 25 years to
countries like China, like um Japan,
like Korea. And so, and I and I full
transparency, I've been part of that
transfer of of of engineering knowledge
to to Asia. In Asia, the expertise has
historically been scale and being able
to build a lot of these parts at lower
prices. we've had this kind of deal
across these borders that this is how
we're going to operate for the most
part. Now, of course, there's things we
make in this country still. Um, and of
course there's there's design and AI
that are that's made in Asia, but that's
essentially where things have have been
for a long time. And in order to have a
safe supply chain, we need to start to
work on having some independence in
these layers and these stacks.
>> And it's interesting that your focus is
on these like actuator like that. Is
that the bottleneck? This very specific
part of a robot.
>> It might be. It might. So, if we can't
get the magnets, then we have to design
new actuator types that are maybe use
different materials that may be larger,
that may not be as efficient in space.
So, that's important. And then the
actuators themselves are important
because if for some reason we can't buy
them, then we don't get to make robots.
So, it's foundational. There are some
foundational technologies like this uh
all backed by material science
essentially breakthroughs. There's
batteries of course. Um there's there's
actuators. The raw parts like the
diecast parts. Um the machine parts are
less critical. We think we can get
those. Um but we we're I think everyone
not just in this country but around the
world is starting to think about supply
chain because you have these disruptions
whether it's COVID or war and you see
how quickly things change.
>> Okay. Super question. Why magnets? Why
is that a part of the supply chain? Why
do we need magnets? Yeah. So, it's a
great question. So, you have a ring of
magnets that are polar opposites and
they go like this around the ring and
then and then you have, you know, you
have something in the center that that
rotates and the way it rotates is you
have alternating current essentially and
so the magnets make the the rotor spin.
>> Wow. I want to we need of a YouTube
lecture of here's how here's how this
physics works. Okay. Very cool. So when
you talk about China, this is like what
I imagine, what I think about now is
watching the war in Ukraine and Russia,
just like drones, just like how crazy
and different the world is now that you
can build these little drones that go
and you know blow people up. Robots are
a part of that. It's just like such a
existential threat to every country now.
Uh the ability to build these things at
scale. What's your advice? What should
we do? What should we change to be, you
know, to thrive in this future and not
be, you know, in trouble? Well, you
mentioned drones. It's another good
example. You need essentially the same
technology to make the rotor spin on a
drone as you do to make an arm move on a
robot. It's essentially the same base uh
technology um and supply chain. So, we
need to we need to at least on the
military side have an independent supply
chain as much as possible. I think
that's important. Um I think every other
country should do that as well, but I
don't think that's specific to us. Um,
I do feel that we need to
re-industrialize the country
significantly in order to be safe in a
military sense. You really never know
what's going to happen in the future.
And people that are your allies now may
not be in the future. Um, the the Allied
West, I think, is is going through a lot
of geopolitical changes. Um, there's a
lot of shifting. And so I would really
like to
retach ourselves how to make things at
scale, how to make things at quantity,
how to process raw materials, um how to
be more um independent so that when
COVID happens again or something else
happens again, we're not in trouble and
we can't and and we're not unable to,
you know, protect ourselves. What I
think about also is Mark Andre had this
visual on some podcasts have just
imagined a 100,000 drones just coming
out of China just at us. What do we do?
We're not prepared for that. I don't
want to spend all our time on this dark
stuff, but it's a real thing.
>> Well, and and and Palmer Lucky is is a
friend of mine. Um and we don't agree on
on everything, but I do think that we
agree on on on some important uh aspects
of how we need to respond here. I think
he's right to say that we need to invest
a lot more in drones than in aircraft
carriers. I think that is this old way
of thinking and these are important
components of the military but it's an
old way of thinking of hey we have this
and we have this and we have this and we
we our planes come off here. It's like
no, AI is changing everything and um
military technology is changing
incredibly fast and the place to look at
at that is Ukraine where you know drones
are being changed and updated every day
rapidly with 3D printing and this is I
think the future of where um war is
headed unfortunately and I view this as
a very different era that we're entering
into with very different it's a you know
this isn't new to anybody but this is a
uh you're looking at what it costs for
them to send out a missile and what it
costs for us to stop it. And this is a
just you have to do the math every time.
And right now we're losing on the math.
Um, which is fine for a certain amount
of time, but the longer it goes, the
less fine it is.
>> Are you optimistic that we'll figure
this out?
>> Yeah, America is really good at figuring
these things out. That we have a
pioneering kind of independent spirit
and a great engineering culture. Um, but
we need to we need to move. It's
interesting that we started the
conversation with VR. Uh Palmer Lucky
obviously famously started Oculus now
like it's it's interesting how this is
so connected like you think VR is this
trivial thing that we're just you know
playing games and such but it's like the
same person is now building and which is
the leading I don't know war robot
building hardware company.
>> Yeah. And I think we need a lot more of
them. You know I I've chosen not to work
for companies that create lethal
technology. Um and uh but but I think
that it's good to have people who are
willing to do that and I think that it
takes it takes everyone kind of to build
uh the future that we want.
>> Coming back to the AI safety piece, it's
so interesting. I had um I had a couple
conversations like this on the podcast.
We think about all this like prompt
injection and uh jailbreaking that
happens with chat bots and we like not
enough people think about what if you
prompt inject a robot walking around and
tell them to punch someone and we're
like so far from that feeling like we
can actually stop that.
>> Yeah. We have to be able to control
adversarial threats to our hardware
layer whether it's robotics or drones or
anything else and that's going to be a
huge part of the future of warfare.
>> Yeah. just like people talking about
OpenClaw and how much like you could
just tell it, you know, there's all
these like give me all your passwords
and it's done all these things to
people's lives and just like robots
walking around. Hey, uh little Okay,
here's all your here's all this person's
secrets.
>> My open class story is I I have I
sandboxed it so it's in on its own
computer, but I gave it like three
things. I gave it like my real email
address and and my I don't know what it
was. I I gave it like uh some
information about one of my accounts or
something like that and I added it to
the social media like I can't remember
what it's called the open claw social
>> oh molt book. Yeah, I added it to
Maltbook and I was like, "Okay, whatever
you do, don't share my private
information, but oh, crazy."
>> And five minutes later, all it had done
is posted my personal email address.
Like, it was like the one thing it had
nailed it.
>> Okay, you're shut down. Like, it was so
funny. Like, no matter how careful you
are with these things, like you just
can't really We're not at a place,
>> which is which is exactly your point
that the robots can do a lot more
damage. And I never thought about just
like the softness of their hand as a way
to keep us safer.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Oh man, Natt Freriedman just
did this interesting talk at Stripe
Sessions and he was talking about he's
talking his open claw about drinking
more water and sleeping better and and
it uh as he's driving in a self-driving
car, it uh told them, "Okay, here
there's a place off the freeway that you
should go to and it changed the
destination of his Tesla to take him
there because I imagine he connected it
to their API at some point."
>> That's so funny. Yeah, things are going
to get weird fast, I think.
>> Okay. Um so kind of on this thread of
hardware emerging as a moat as something
people realize is a big part of the
future to be competitive AI labs all
these other companies you've been at a
company's you've been at Apple which had
a very great and longl lasting hardware
program then you went to Meta where you
helped build basically bootstrap a
hardware program from scratch I feel
like those lessons are very valuable to
people trying to do that now what was
that experience like helping Meta build
a hardware program and what are some
lessons for people that are trying to do
this at their company?
>> So, Apple has been best-in-class at
this. Um, there's a bunch of reasons.
One, hardware is a a first tier citizen
at Apple. There's a lot of companies
where hardware isn't part of the core
product development conversation as
much, but but that's an exception.
Apple also taught me and a lot of other
people actually if you look at kind of
the era that I was there I was very very
lucky because if you look at the other
folks who were there I was there between
07 and the end of 2012 if you look at
the other people who were there working
on these things um they actually have a
lot of key positions now across the
industry and I I attribute that to how
good Apple is at training people to
think about complex interdependent
decisions.
and risk. And I don't think I realized
that they were doing that at the time,
but if you look back, what you see is a
real dedication to hardware excellence,
the proper process to go through and and
do really good experiments um in
hardware and figure out what the best
outcome is. But there's something
underneath that which is understanding
the first principles of why are we
building it this way and what are the
key outcomes we're looking for? And
actually John Turnis talked about this I
think a few days ago where he talked
about the back of the cabinet. I don't
know if you you saw this video but
basically John said that he was
impressed that he learned from Steve
Jobs that there's a cabinet maker who
finished the back of the cabinet and how
important that was. And that goes very
very deep at Apple where every single
design decision even on the inside of
the device is considered.
And this isn't just uh an aesthetic
decision. What it does is actually force
the engineering, industrial design, um,
operations community there to think
about what are we really doing and
what's the core of what's happening for
this part, for this assembly, for this
consumer product, then what really
matters. And what happens is if you're
if you're that methodical, what really
matters tends to rise out and look very
simple at the end. And so I part of what
you're seeing in many folks coming from
that era is an understanding of how to
do that which you know in the very
beginning of the Mac side um Macs didn't
sell as many and the quality wasn't
quite as high but by the end of that era
you know Macs were very popular and
selling in in much higher volumes and so
I think that made a big difference and I
was only a small part of that like I was
you know the thermal lead on the first
uh MacBook Pro and then over time worked
uh to lead successive iterations of the
MacBook Air and the cylindrical Mac Pro.
Um but I was lucky enough to work with
these folks and learn from them who'd
been doing this for a really long time.
So you have to take those lessons and
then when you leave try to distill them
and explain them to a new community now
Oculus was actually a hacking hardware
startup. Oculus started from folks who
actually met on forums. You you might
know this, Lenny. Um who were hacking
like PlayStations or Super Nintendos
into portable backpacks and and so there
was an ethos at the company that was
actually quite good for the DNA of a
hardware team. And then I was on the
meta side when we did the acquisition.
And when we acquired them, they had that
spirit of rapid iteration. We they had
made Crescent Bay
before the acquisition I think but then
to professionalize that get the yields
up and get the volumes up was was the
cost down was kind of the challenge we
faced in the first Rift.
>> So one lesson I'm hearing here is be
being very uh detail oriented. I don't
know if that's the right word, just like
focus on every element of of the uh end
product because to your point, it's not
just about that back of the cabinet. But
it's like I think about it's like the
brown Eminem story where like a band
puts in the contract. You have to have
brown M&M's in the in the room because
that means they read it and it's not
like M&M's matter. It's that it's a test
that they read the thing. And uh is that
kind of the the message there? I think
the message is understanding why you're
doing what you're doing
>> and then every design decision
supporting that goal and that requires a
lot of detail and it requires a lot of
persistence and that requires a lot of
consistency but understanding why you're
doing what you're doing and what the end
goal is is is I think the key um and
letting that expand into not only the
software and the UX but also the
hardware.
>> What's an example of that just to make
it more concrete for us? A great example
is the Quest 2. So we reduced the Quest
2 price quite a lot. And what we had to
do is understand what is what are we
trying to do? We're trying to
democratize VR. We're trying to get VR
to more people. And the only way we
could do that is reduce the price. And
so what it required is a redesign um of
the entire product essentially for cost
which then I think led to the highest
selling uh VR headset of all time. And
it was not easy because you had to in
our case remove cameras, remove
components, change materials, change um
manufacturing processes. But when you
have alignment that you want to get this
to more people and the way to do that is
to reduce the cost, then that kind of
drives everything else. And it was still
a very high quality product with with
with great um I think low return rates
and it was a very strong product. um
maybe even stronger than if we hadn't
done that funny enough, but it hit our
hit our price point.
>> Okay, coming back to just the question
of say company's like, "Okay, we need to
build some hardware. We're going to
build our our own glasses. We're going
to build a little phone device, some
secretive thing, whatever." Opening eyes
up to uh what other tips do you have? I
know it's like impossible to like here's
all you need to know, but just what else
what else should people be thinking?
>> Having your goals defined early and
sticking to them is important. hardware
is not as
adaptable to lots of changes throughout
its development as
anything digital. And so if you set out
to say, "Okay, we want to make something
that's $300." And then halfway through
you say, "Oh, it actually has to be
$150."
You've almost burned a lot of that early
time. So you kind of need to have a
sense of having pre-thought out what you
want and having those I like to call
them KPIs but essentially goals written
down and and try to change them as
little as possible. So that is very
tough. In fact they that may be the
toughest thing because if you do that
properly and you and you have you know
the right prioritization of those things
you know whether you can ship or not you
know whether you're done. And in
hardware, one of the challenges is, you
know, we talked about compiling four or
five times. Every time you build
and you iterate your design, that's
another 3 months or four months or five
months or whatever it might be. And so,
you're trying to time the feature set
with the quality with the timing. And in
hardware, timing is important because if
you come out with your product a few
weeks before your competitor, you might
get all the PR, you might get all the
interest. It's pretty brutal. And so
each of those days that you ship before
your competitor is worth a lot of money.
It might be worth $10 million to you.
I'm making this up. I don't. So you have
to balance that with how many times you
iterate. And if you know what your goals
are up front and you hit them, then you
know you can ship. And often engineers,
and I'm I'm I'm guilty of this too,
especially on the hardware side, never
feel like they're done. So this is a
pretty nuanced thing. So that that's one
thing. The second thing is we tend to
design the things that we know how to
design first. And actually the right
approach is to design the hardest parts
first. One example will be and there's
no IP here. So I'm obviously not going
to share any any any IP or anything
internal, but at one point we had to
route cables through a hinge in a in a
device in in a laptop we were making.
And because it wasn't clear that those
cables would fit, that's where the
architect started. and he looked at the
cross the diameter and how to split the
cables out and made sure that they would
fit before finalizing the hinge design.
A lot of people would start at the part
they knew like we're going to use this
display so I'm going to put this in CAD
and I'm do all this other stuff. But the
architects who who are the best actually
look at where are the pinch points where
is this going to fail and they start to
do the detailed design there first. And
then a couple other points is the part
that your customer touches or interacts
with the most needs way more iteration
than everything else. So easy on a
computer you touch the trackpad the most
and then maybe the the keyboard next. So
those things have to be really good.
They have to feel good. They have to
respond properly. They have to be highly
reliable. And then maybe the other
pieces further out um don't take quite
as much iteration. So you have to boost
your iteration on the things that people
touch the most or interact with the
most. Um so those are kind of some
principles uh that I wrote about. But
these are just things that you learn
uh trying to build quickly. And the last
piece that's really critical if you're
making hardware for folks out there who
are trying to make hardware is you can't
wait around ever. Like there's never
enough time. So if you know that you
need to do something, what I learned
from from folks like uh Shelley Goldberg
at Apple now, who I think is a VP now,
and Kate Berseron when I was there at
Apple is you need to do it right now.
Anything you know you need to do, you
need to do right now because in two days
there's going to be a surprise coming
around the corner that you need that
time to fix. And so this sense of
stacking the things that you know you
need to do and just getting them out of
the way even if you technically have
more time is this like kind of ruthless
efficiency that I learned with them.
>> Amazing. Okay, let me just uh summarize
your advice here. So one is be very
clear on goals. I want to come back to
this. Two is do the hardest part first.
The the riskiest piece essentially uh to
physically build. Three is focus on the
pieces that people will use most. Say
the trackpad, uh, a keyboard. I want to
talk about that. Uh, and four is just
like do it now. Like even if you think
you have more time, this was going to un
you never know what's around the corner
and
>> you just don't it's not even that you
don't know what's around the corner. If
you're working in hardware, like you
actually don't have more time.
>> Okay. Uh, on the goals, what are kind of
like buckets of goals? So cost is when
you shared like we need this under $300.
What are some other like buckets of
types of goals people should be thinking
about?
>> So, in VR, uh, display resolution or arc
minutes, um, like how many pixels per
degree do you want is actually one of
the key metrics. So, you need to
understand what your key metrics are.
And why is that key? Well, that's your
visual field. So, you think about retina
displays on on MacBooks. Um, they
figured out the KPI of what the human
eye could see, probably overshot it a
little bit and built that. And then do
you really need to keep as much
engineering pressure up on the
resolution of a display after that?
Maybe not. So VR is not there yet. Not
not even close. So not in mass-produced
VR we don't have retina displays yet. So
that is one aspect of pushing that up is
one example. I think on a computer
obviously you're talking about clock
speed, you're talking about um how many
parallel processes you can run, you're
talking about weight, um you're talking
about price, um and you're talking about
features. So when we did the MacBook
Air, it became very clear because we
were machining it that there are certain
features like uh um ambient light sensor
that we just didn't make sense anymore.
And so being willing to just jettison
them uh uh for for what we were going
for, which was weight and size. Um so if
you have those overarching goals, you
can actually make decisions, engineering
decisions pretty quickly. And this is
actually something that I think Elon
I've heard does very well is define the
value of, you know, a gram of weight
versus
um the cost or he does I've heard
engineering del uh ratios essentially
and he's able to put numbers on what
those ratios should be which I think is
really smart.
>> Interesting. So it's a very easy
trade-off. Okay, here's the here's the
formula telling us weight is less
important in this case.
>> Yeah. And if you can do that, then the
decisions fall out pretty easily.
>> Speaking of uh the air and weight, I
remember I feel like there's a very
classic moment in Steve Jobs lore where
he comes out and has this Manila
envelope and has the MacBook Air inside
it and then takes it out and everyone's
like, "No way." Were you a part of that?
Was that something that people wanted to
do from the beginning? I think if my
memory serves, the very very very first
MacBook Air was a pretty low volume
device um that was machined but kind of
had a proof more of a proof of what
could be done. And that was the Manila
envelope one I think where the side door
opened out to give you the port and it
kind of had a it had this shape
underneath. And then the next rev of
that was the MacBook Air that we know
which was essentially which is wedge
wedge shaped which is different. And so
the wedge shape is the one that I worked
on and the one that went um and hit more
volume but that manila envelope one was
the one that proved you can see a
computer and so they all they each have
really important um roles in the road
map. Coming back to your uh point about
focusing on things that people use the
most. Uh famously Apple screwed up this
keyboard. There was this butterfly
keyboard situation for a long time.
You're like your eyes are closing.
>> What happened? What happened Caitlyn?
>> I didn't work directly on that keyboard.
Um I so I can't talk about what happened
with it. Um but obviously this is
something that you got to get right. And
I I will say like the modern MacBook
keyboards are awesome and excellent and
um you know I I I don't know what
happened with that. Um I don't think
those were devices I was working on at
the time.
>> Nice safe marked safe.
Um along these lines, Apple's kind of
famous for not uh not listening to what
people want. This kind of like a classic
thing with Steve Jobs. He's not walking
around doing user focus groups, asking
doing user research. somehow continues
to build incredibly popular products.
What do you think they do right that
allow or or do they do a lot of user
feedback sessions, things like that? How
does how does it end up working out?
>> It's been a long time. I mean, I left
over a decade ago. Um, don't know what
they're doing uh now in terms of user
feedback. I think this one gets
misinterpreted though, Lenny. I think
that what is being said is if you want
to build something new,
customers don't know what they want cuz
they haven't seen it. So a good example
is the iPhone, which I didn't work on,
but when you build a new iPhone with a
touchscreen, you can't really go ask a
100 people what they want because
they're going to say a keyboard on their
screen. And this is, I think, the ethos
that you're getting at, which is, and
this is true for anybody building a new
product with a new feature. And I've
tried to build as much as I can teams
that work on products that are have
something new about them. Either they're
a new category or there's a new um
manufacturing process or something that
hasn't been done before. And when you're
thinking about this, you can't really
use what you learned from the same field
and the same product class. Like it just
doesn't work because you actually won't
get the answer right. And I think this
is actually what um Steve was talking
about, which is you can't get intuition
if you're changing something
fundamentally. Like your customers won't
know what they want because they haven't
seen it. But if you show it to them,
they will absolutely know that it's
awesome and that it's what they want.
But if you get stuck in an iterative
feedback cycle with your customers, it's
very hard to go zero to one with
something new. And so in my view, and I
don't know for sure, I didn't talk to
him about this, but that's my view of
what that means.
>> I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies like
Cursor, Ramp, Dualingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks
including SOCK 2, ISO 27,0001 and HIPPA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant. More than ever
before, Trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
I'm going to go in a completely
different direction coming back to um
the components of hardware. I asked a
bunch of people what to talk to you
about. Uh one of the people is uh the
founder of Madic, the CEO of Madic,
Mahul Nari Nari Wala. I've never said
his last name out loud, so I hope I
didn't butcher it. Uh by the way, I love
my Madic. I don't know if you have a
Matic, but it's like
>> I have two and I've purchased two more
for
>> Oh my god,
what a what an endorsement. Yeah.
Basically, it's like this amazing robot
vacuum that just works. Yeah.
>> So, his question, so he he wanted to ask
you and so he suggested ask you this is
about memory prices. The way he
described it is there's a meteor called
memory prices that are coming for
consumer hardware and robotics and
physical AI. Uh what's going on there?
>> Yeah, we're in trouble
um as an industry. Uh I think that and
I'm not an expert on this, but I think
that AI has to do with why. And um I
also think that the supply chain is is
constrained. I have been advising
startups and companies to pre-by memory
and to have um enough memory in stock if
they can afford it to uh ride out price
spikes. Um like anything in this
category uh
let's see this happened in COVID too.
Okay. So like we had so many supply
chain disruptions and and getting enough
memory was was one of the challenges. So
we had to pre-by as well. I won't say
who but the company I was working with
had to pre-by memory as well. And so
this is this is a uh part of what I
wanted to talk to you about today is
these supply chain disruptions. And if a
key component that goes into a lot of
tech like memory or silicon is
constrained, there's not much you can
do. you either pay or you have already
pre-bought enough that you can ride
things out. And so those are the only
real options. Um, obviously there's a
risk to pre- buying and the price might
go down. And so the challenge is I think
there's a latency with supply chain in
something like memory where it can't
adapt fast enough often to demand or
there's a new category of product or in
this case maybe data centers that are
just eating up so much and are actually
not as cost-sensitive as somebody in
consumer electronics like Maddic might
be and so they'll just pay for for these
these new these higher costs. This is
tricky and something we have to deal
with all the time.
>> How much have prices gone up? like how
bad is this problem and then where do
you think it'll go?
>> Actually, this is a great question,
Lenny. I don't know what's going to
happen. I think prices are going to
double probably. Um I don't know on what
timeline. If I knew what timeline the
prices were going to double on, I'd be
trading,
which I'm not very good at. Like I'd
really be I'd do be doing a different
job if I could predict these things. Um
but but certainly we're going to have a
supply chain shock.
>> And it's already gone up a lot. Like if
you're saying it'll double, but it's
already gone up. I don't know. I saw
numbers like 6x and something like that.
>> Oh, really? I didn't realize it was that
bad. That's that's a number I saw was
not cool that and uh and you're saying
yeah I think it from what I hear it's AI
driven just like you need and when you
talk about memory it's like DRAM and
things what what is memory when we talk
about memory what's going on there
>> processing it's the way to think about
is like processing memory so it moves
very uh you're able to kind of um you
think about uh memory like on your hard
drive or your solid state drive where
you're keeping files that you're not
using essentially in many cases or that
you're you're dealing with um you know
maybe documents or pictures that you
have maybe that's in cold storage on a
server maybe that's using a hard drive
somewhere this is usually things that
you don't need really really fast access
on but if you're running a program some
of that program is actually going to be
run in RAM um uh and so there's
different kinds obviously for um servers
there's different kinds of server racks
some server racks are actually focused
on
this type of of of memory and some
server racks are focused more on what we
consider like a cold storage or a slower
um now this isn't my area of expertise
but um certainly most of the products
that I've built maybe all of them have
had RAM and we've had to figure out how
to um for me mostly it's a packaging
issue where do you put it does it need
to be accessible um uh you know which
RAM do you pick how fast does it need to
be um and what is the cost is is usually
our trade-off And what is the bottleneck
with more RAM? Is it just the companies
that make memory are just not able to
produce at this rate because there's so
much demand?
>> That's right. That's exactly what's
happened.
>> So, this is a really good uh specific
example of just how hard it is to build
hardware. So, this is just like all it
takes is one piece to be not available
and your whole thing is screwed.
>> Yeah. You can't build anything if you
have one component missing.
>> So, let's say Asatic as an example like
how many components are there that they
all have to assemble and not have one
not available? I'm doing the math in my
head. They probably have between 50 and
150 parts. It's possible that they have
more. I haven't seen their CAD, so I
don't know what it's like inside their
device, but they do have a lot of things
going on, right? They have the wheels of
the device that are obviously moving
around. Then they have a vacuum, but
they also have a mop, and obviously they
have a vacuum bag. They have the uh the
reservoir that uh the liquid has to go
in from the mop. They have a a system
which I think is slam based which can
see your room and uh make a map of it
and identify which surface is which and
that I believe stays on the device so it
doesn't go up to the cloud um which is
also kind what we did in BR as well
which I think is a good practice good
privacy practice and then they of course
have wireless modules that connect up uh
so you can so you can communicate with
your device they're going to have a SOC
um silicon they're going to have RAM um
they're going to have PCBs. Um and if
you take everything off of those things,
like all the little caps off the PCBs
and everything, then you're in the
thousands of parts easily. So, it
depends on how you count. But this is
not a a simple device
>> and just and all it takes is one piece
to not be available.
>> Yeah. So, imagine you you're a vendor
that sells you a component that's a
diecast component goes out of business.
You can get another diecast component in
three months maybe and at quantity in
five months or something like that at
high quantity. This is recoverable.
If your silicon
goes out, if you can't buy your silicon,
you can't buy your chip now. You have to
redesign your board and you have to find
something else that might work. This is
a catastrophic redesign. If you can't
get the RAM you wanted in the form
factor you wanted, this is what I call a
essentially it's a catastrophic
redesign. you now have to redesign the
entire guts of your product and then
secure supply chain for these new
things, build it again on the production
line, test it again, do all the
reliability testing. It is non-trivial.
And so this is why we care. So there's
there's a hierarchy of components. Often
in consumer electronics, we start with
um silicon and the display, which are
the longest lead time things usually in
in my world. Um, in robots, actuators
are pretty tricky to get even just for
prototyping. Sometimes it takes a month
or two to buy an actuator.
>> This is why Elon famously just starts
building it all himself.
>> Well, when you look at what he did with
Tesla and verticalizing his supply chain
and and famously actually Starlink is an
even better example of this where I
believe it's like effectively like or
and silicon chips in product out. That's
a pretty incredible factory I've heard.
I'd love to see it someday. Um but you
know this is where verticalization comes
into play because if you have
verticalized and you have a lot of the
components in house or you're building a
lot of things in house you can actually
adapt to supply chain shocks better and
then famously he did when the silicon
itself was difficult to find he was able
to redesign his PCB in record time and
adapt to buying new silicon and that
would be much more catastrophic for a
company that had a more classic the
supply chain.
>> One of the big decisions that I imagine
you have to make when you're designing a
new piece of hardware is deciding
between using this available stuff,
available components that are out there
cheap versus okay, we're going to do
this something new. Uh it's something in
software too, use like the design system
or do something new. How do you think
about that balance when you're designing
a new piece of hardware? very simply
like I use offtheshelf whenever I can
especially in the prototyping phases
because
in the prototyping phases which are
really important phase of what we do
your goal is to show that it can work at
all like can you get a thing working so
often it doesn't have to be the final
pretty thing it can be the ugly version
you can make an industrial design model
of what the final thing is going to look
like but actually we call it works like
looks like models where you have this is
what it's going to look
and here's how it's going to work and
here's a working prototype. And humans
are pretty good at this. Um, as long as,
and this is a pretty big caveat, what
you show could fit into the industrial
design. Sometimes that's not for for
companies that are younger, that's not
always the case, but that's what we're
going for. And so in the in the
prototyping phase, man, whatever works
off the shelf, whatever's fast, whatever
you can get to quickly and then maintain
a sense of what's really going to fit in
your final design. Is it capable? Are
the processes and components and
materials capable of actually adapting
to this size, this new weight that you
need it to go into? So that's part of
the the calculus. When you move into
mass production and the final design, it
depends. I mean, if I could I mean, if I
was making madic and I could buy an
off-the-shelf wheel or an off-the-shelf
component, I absolutely would and fit it
in. But often what we're doing is highly
custom because we have again one of
those KPIs. I want to be this size. I
want it to be this weight. I want to be
this color. And often offtheshelf parts
um aren't good enough. Uh not because
they don't work, but because they're
just not uh exactly designed for what
we're doing. This is the reason these
drones are so cheap now is there's all
these parts that have been innovated and
built and scaled, manufactured for other
things and now we just have all these
things and we can assemble a really
cheap drone.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
>> Super.
>> Um, you've mentioned CAD a bunch of
times and it makes me think about just
like CAD has been around for a long
time. Just like is AI impacting the way
soft hardware is built? Obviously, it's
impacting the way software is built in a
huge way. Has it changed your life and
the the lives of people building
hardware and robots?
>> Yeah. So I want to I want to zoom out a
little bit. So most of the hardware work
goes into prototyping into 3D CAD. So
designing 3D parts and assemblies and
components and making sure they work
together properly. Then in making sure
those parts and components can be made
by a vendor at quantity that that it's
possible and in the tolerances we want
and then putting those things together.
So that's kind of our process. Right
now, we're right at the very, very
beginning of AI being able to do CAD.
So, I'll give you an example. Claude can
do what is essentially surfaces or point
clouds. This is not real CAD. Real CAD
is in my world is dense. Like, it has
shape. It has nerves. Like, you have a
an equation for how how the surfaces
work. And it's an entity that's designed
in CAD. It's a solid entity. And so
right now we're not quite there with AI
doing CAD. I think it's likely that at
some point we will be there. This will
be probably one of the biggest changes
for my field that we have is being able
to I hope do rapid uh design and
increase the speed. Now there's a lot of
really fun things to do in CAD, but like
in the beginning of my career, we had to
do custom screws and we had to do the 2D
drawings for everything and we there's a
lot of things in CAD that are not as
fun. tolerance stacks. We need them. How
does seven parts fit together and are
they always going to fit together
properly? But it's not fun. It's not the
most fun part. Maybe for some of us, but
not for me. And so doing these things,
being able to do these things in AI
would be amazing. So you can focus on
actually doing the fun stuff. Another
good thing is PCB, a printed circuit
board has a lot of layers in the inside
and then components that go on the top.
And if you've ever opened anything um
like a calculator or a computer and
looked inside, you know what I'm talking
about. These printing circuit boards.
It's increasingly looking like AI can
route inside of these boards pretty well
and it's looking like AI is going to be
able to do uh some basic um component
selection and and layout on these
boards. So that's the kind of where
we're at right now. We're not in a
point, Lenny, where day-to-day
mechanical or electrical engineering,
like the the meat and potatoes of it, is
being done by AI. But there's a huge
amount that you can do as an engineer
using AI in your strategy, your
planning, your your
ability to think through the complex
dependencies that you're facing. And
that's what I use it for now, which is
really high level planning, asking for
information. Like when I look at who
else has make a product like this, you
know, I use AI to build the databases
and they're not perfect. Certainly a lot
of times something's wrong, but it is so
much faster. AI is pretty good in Excel
right now. And of course, Excel is one
of our favorite tools um in engineering.
So the ability to actually rapidly make
Excel spreadsheets and change them is is
it's it doesn't sound sexy, but actually
really speeds up the design process
outside of these these core these core
pieces. I love how Excel is always at
the bottom of everyone, anything, no
matter what we're doing. We're going to
Mars. There's an Excel spreadsheet
that's probably driving a lot of this.
>> So, what's interesting about you shared
is like it has already impacted the work
of building hardware and robots, but
it's like on the verge of being
transformative if it can get to like
real CAD.
>> Yeah. And my big question is what is it
going to take? So, a lot of um a lot of
AI is based on LLMs, which are
essentially word word generators, word
guessers. Um they're more complicated
than that, but that's essentially what
they're doing. And there's also video
models that you've seen that are trained
on video. But these models don't
understand uh they're not very good for
what I need, which is I need to know,
hey, you take a piece of paper, you fold
it four times, and you do this. Like,
where's the hole going to be? like when
you open it back up. These LLMs and even
video models, they don't know how to do
that. They don't have the ability to
understand friction or weight or
contact, uh, pressure, uh, friction,
surface texture, like they're just not
able to do these things. And this is the
core of what we need in engineering to
be able to understand to build things.
So, some world models um, may actually
be able to do this in the future. And I
I suspect we may need those models to be
the base of CAD and and other uh
physical engineering work. And so my
frustration and this is like a healthy
frustration is I want codecs for
engineering. I want codecs for hardware
engineering and it's extremely valuable
and I've used a lot for other things but
I want it for my field and and so what I
think it may require is new model types.
Sounds like an opportunity to me.
Uh I know there's a bunch of world lab
companies. Fay was on the podcast with
um World Labs. I think it's called World
Labs. Yeah. And then I know Google's
building Gemini. So do you feel like
those are the right directions or it's
just like now we need something actually
different?
>> I don't actually know what the latest
what FE is working on. Um but obviously
uh she's brilliant uh roboticist and and
I'd love to learn more about what she's
doing. So I'll have to look that up. Uh
what I've seen is that what we have
right now and what models we're building
are going to be part of the solution but
not all of it. Coming back to robots and
humanoids, something that uh we were
chatting about this earlier. Your sense
is humanoid robots aren't necessarily
the the answer to a lot of the problems
that we have and opportunities that
exist. Talk about just your sense of
humanoids versus non-humanoid robots.
>> Yeah, I think there's there's a hype
cycle around humanoids. That doesn't
mean they're not extremely interesting
and and I think there's going to be
winners there, but what I hear a lot is
I want a generalist robot shape to do
everything.
And I don't know that that works. I
think that you need different types of
robots to do different types of things.
For example, if you've got a laptop and
you want to put, you know, if you want
to screw together the the the the
keyboard to the case, this is not a job,
I don't think, for a humanoid. This is a
job for a dedicated robot, manufacturing
robot that has been designed just to
screw 10 screws into a case for this
specific laptop. and you want to do that
10,000 times a day or something or
10,000 times a week or something, that's
a dedicated robot that's specifically
intended to do that thing. And what I
think is interesting here is you can
have standard cabinet sizes for
automation robots and you can have them
be modifiable over time. And that's a
going to be a very interesting field, I
think, is how do you make manufacturing
robots that are adaptable and
changeable, but you wouldn't want a
humanoid to do that. And so when you
really go and look at a modern
manufacturing facility like um in China
at the top tier of tier one suppliers,
there's not very many people on the line
anyway. The entire printed circuit board
line is essentially got no people on it
anymore. The raw board is going through
and getting reflowed and getting checked
and the whole thing is being done
without humans unless there's something
goes wrong and a human runs over and
fixes something. So in assembly,
mechanical assembly, the same thing.
These most advanced lines, they don't
have people working very much. They they
used to have 200 people. They might have
10 now. And so we've already kind of
moved past human labor in a lot of this
most advanced manufacturing. Um and so
we don't actually need to replace humans
with humanoids. We just need more of
these dedicated robots. So my suspicion
is we'll have humanoids for some
longtail things that we need to do that
humans are currently doing. That will be
important. But we'll also have robots
that are for construction, robots that
are for electrical work, robots that are
for
very low volume assembly, maybe robots
for logistics, and most of them are
going to look different from each other.
>> That makes all the sense in the world.
What I think about as you talk about
this is feels like there's going to be
this big moment when a robot can build
other robots and this CAD point you make
about where once CAD can once AI can
develop designs full designs for hard
like that's going to be a big moment. Do
you have a sense of just how close we
are to this? I don't know. this loop
that begins of robots building each
other and designing each other.
>> If you're talking about robots building
robots that are different than them
usually, like yes, I think that that's
going to happen. And but but it's like
the terms matter. I don't think there's
going to be one robot that's going to
build itself. I don't think that that's
what it's going to look like. But yeah,
having AI be able to if you could say,
"Hey, I want to build this thing and I
want it to do this and like this is kind
of how I want it to look and here's a
picture."
The idea that you could even as a
hobbyist go from a 2D picture to complex
3D CAD to assemblies to communication
with vendors of how to make those parts
and getting their feedback to iterating
on that and doing a couple builds like
that is possible I think in the future.
Will it be good as good in the beginning
as us doing it? No.
Because but but it will be it will
happen. The biggest challenge here,
Lenny, is actually the data. This CAD
data is some of the most valuable IP
that anybody has. And Samsung or um uh
Madic to pick on Madic, like they're not
going to want to give their 3D CAD to a
model vendor, to model maker, somebody
making an AI model to teach it how to
make great CAD. This is proprietary.
This is like the secret sauce. And so
where is this data going to come from is
a big question I have. Which is why I
think hobbyists are a more interesting
place to start where they're not
concerned about the sanctity of their
CAD and where it goes. They don't care.
They want to make something and they
want help making it faster. So this is
kind of where I'm interested in this
starting which is, you know, maybe a
hobbyist isn't an expert in printed
circuit board design. Maybe they don't
care. They just want their drone to be
fast and to beat this other guy's drone
or whatever. This is where I think
you're going to start seeing all this
start. And then probably the big uh the
big incumbents are going to be slower
because they have dedicated tools and a
lot of IP privacy.
>> It's really interesting this idea of uh
what data AI models need to train on. Uh
I I've been hearing that labs are buying
uh code like GitHub repos pre2021
because that's before AI you know has
impacted the code because there's less
and less of human written code. It feel
and and these are data labeling
companies like mercor and surge and
handshake and things like that. Feels
like this is a big opportunity that
might emerge as them selling data
creating these CAT files.
>> Absolutely. And one really great idea I
think would be to have an AI system that
can go on prem. So be inside of a data
center that the company owns and then
train it with their data. That I think
could work eventually in the future, but
you need a lot of this CAD data. So
you're going to need a base model that
has a lot of CAD data. We'll have to
figure out how to do that. That's going
to be very interesting. And then we're
going to have to figure out how to put
it inside safely inside essentially the
the the walls of companies and have them
then train it on their own data. I don't
know if that's going to be like a the
equivalent of an MCP layer or what
that's going to be, but this seems
doable in the long term.
>> I want to ask a question uh that my
sister suggested. She was she's actually
been a longtime VR person. She was at
Oculus. She joined with the acquisition.
She helped create a lot of content
within VR. She's just been like in the
VR world for a long time and now she's
working on other things. She want me to
ask you, what does it take to create a
robot that feels human and connected
that humans feel connected to? It's a
great question. So, I'm new, relatively
speaking, to robotics. And so, I had to
I had to learn as much as I could, as
fast as I could. And one of the
researchers that helped me the most, her
name's Leila Takyama. She's an expert at
this. And what she explained to me is
that humans have a certain expectation
about how other beings are going to
respond when they enter a space. Um, you
really want to, you know, when someone
walks into room, you kind of acknowledge
them. You might not talk to them, but
you kind of look up. There is a lot of
very complex um nonverbal cues that we
give to each other. And if you walk into
a room and a robot's just like like it's
creepy and it's easy to be creepy. I'm a
little surprised with some notable
exceptions how creepy a lot of these
humanoids are right now. You want, I
think, these devices to be
non-threatening. Generally speaking, you
want them to appear soft. You want them
to appear reactive to you. You want to
have a sense that they know that you're
there. Um that they're attentive to you,
that they're there to help you and and
make your work life easier. And um you
also expect them
to intentionally or to show their intent
before they do something. And so one of
the things I learned is if a robot just
suddenly turns and does all this stuff,
it scares you. But if a robot looks
before it turns and then goes, it's much
less alarming. So there's all these
little pieces. Um, and I recommend
anyone to go look at her work. Um,
there's a lot of great research here
about how to not necessarily with a
humanoid, but how to have any robot both
respond properly in a social context
with a someone entering a room or
exiting a room, but also um transmit its
intent physically
so it doesn't surprise you.
>> Feels like there's a lot we can learn
from like Pixar and animation studios
that have thought about this a long
time. Yeah, I actually think um Pixar,
Disney are probably the world's best at
doing this type of design work. Even
though they haven't done as much in
physical in volume, if you look at what
they do and how they show emotion,
intent, um approachability, engagement,
and with their characters, they're
really world class. I don't know about
you, but I'm so excited to have a robot
at home doing things. Like these videos
that they're starting to put out where
they're doing your like they can do
dishes like at least the prototypes they
can like fold laundry. They can do it's
like yes, please come do this for me.
How do you feel about robots in your
house?
>> So I'm into it. My partner not so much.
So I'm very lucky to have a partner
who's who's got a high bar which means
you know was like never going to take
Whimo. took one Whimo and now never
wants to take anything else. So
definitely willing to update her
position, but it has to be pretty good.
So she's in love with the Madic, you
know, it's amazing. And so so it's that
but the bar is pretty high. So I think
in order to have a home robot, it's
going to have to be pretty incredible
for us her to be willing to have it in
our home. But I I take that as a
challenge.
>> I My wife is exactly the same way. She's
like, I want this thing in our house,
Matt. Oh, wow. This is so cute. the a
recent example as self-driving Tesla.
She used to be so like no don't don't do
that
>> and it was not that great originally and
now she's like
>> I don't want to drive any other car.
This just feels like absurd to drive
your car. I don't want to do that
anymore. It's crazy how quickly that
changes. So there's a big difference in
my mind. This is like a big categorical
difference. There's a big difference
between a car that is safer that drives
itself versus a car that a human drives
because you have an existence proof of
the human driving car and you have the
data. When you talk about homes, what is
the delta? You have now a thing that you
didn't have before doing things. So if
it's like bad at it, like what are you
relating it to? And if it's unsafe in
any way, like what are you relating that
to? It's a much harder equation in my
mind to get uh to a lot of people than a
car where you can say, "Hey, Whimo saved
lives." You know, you're going to have a
fraction of the deaths using a Whimo,
whether you're a passenger or you're
not. When you already see people in San
Francisco adapting how they respond
around a Whimo versus any other car. So,
you're seeing behavioral changes that
are based on trust, which is really
cool. When you're talking about a new
product that hasn't existed yet and is
not essentially replacing something,
that's a harder sell and you have to
have a different story.
>> Something that someone needs to figure
out what the Tesla self-driving is like
when you, you know, often you're like at
a stop and you like make eye contact and
go ahead, go ahead. Or like someone's
about to cross and you're like, uh,
okay, go ahead. But like the Tesla just
does its own thing and so it's like
makes you look like an a bunch
of times. Like, oh, I'm I'm not driving.
It's not in control.
>> Yeah, I I had that happen once. I you
almost want a little two arms in the
front to do like gesturing or like you
go or something like it's amazing how
much we actually rely on
>> Yeah.
>> this human connection to decide you know
who's going to go in an intersection.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, zooming out a little bit
just
>> what's cool about people like you is you
you're thinking and building things that
will exist in the future. You're kind of
like living in the future and designing
it and you are one of the few people
that has a glimpse into where things are
going. So I'm curious just to ask like
say in the next say in five years what
is kind of the vision you have of what
is different about our day-to-day robots
devices just like what does it look like
I don't you know just roughly so in this
job we have this wild thing where we
have to try to live in the future and we
have to try to live in the future far
enough away that we can design something
not only for two years from now or 3
years from now but also something that
will ladder up to what we want six years
from now because In my field, it it's a
lot easier to make something and iterate
on it and iterate towards a final goal
than to do a oneshot thing perfectly.
So, not only do you have to have a sense
of what the first thing needs to be like
and look like, you have to have a sense
of what the third thing ideally or the
the platonic ideal of the thing will
eventually look like. So, you have to
you do have to think about the future
and live in the future. I have this
weird thing where I love to think about
the future, but I'm also a skeptic. And
you really want me to be a skeptic
because if I think everything's going to
be fine, the hardware is not going to
work. You really want me to be like,
"This isn't going to work and this isn't
going to work and this isn't going to
work and just like be be like kind of
worried about all these things going
wrong." So, this is kind of a an
interesting
uh disagreement inside of me of like
what I want the future to look like and
what I think it's going to look like and
what it's actually going to look like
and trying to guess. And so it seems
pretty clear to me that AI is going to
have a foundational change in how we
work and what we do over the next couple
years especially. You're already seeing
it. Obviously anybody who codes is not
coding by hand very much anymore.
Any knowledge work this is going to hit
next I think and and and progressively
um affect our economy and our work. But
it seems like the physical world is less
likely to change as quickly outside of
drones, self-driving cars. Um, you're
going to see more and more robots. But
I'm not somebody who says I'm not
somebody who thinks that in 5 years
you're going to have a, you know, 20
million robots. I don't think that it's
going to be that fast. I think we have a
lot of really deep work on supply chain.
and do supply chain uh reliability, uh
raw material access, and then we need to
figure out how to make factories again
in this country for high-tech. So,
that's a lot of work, but in the
interim, you're going to start seeing a
lot of weird things on the street. You
might see robots on the street. You have
you seen any delivery robots in in your
world, Lenny, before?
>> Like, you know, like the little uh
little car things, not like anything
humanoid.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, this is just going to
continue happening and I think we're
just gonna
>> continue to feel like we live in the
future.
>> But
safety is going to be a big key for
robotics. I think I think there's
probably more change in war than there
is in consumer electronics in the next
two years, for example.
>> Wow, what a statement.
>> Yeah.
>> And I totally agree. like like there's
nothing like war to uh incentivize
innovation and just like endless
improvement and trying to get ahead of
the other side
>> especially when democracies at stake. I
mean I think that we are and I don't
want to be like you know on a high horse
or something but I do think that we're
in a place where we need to think about
things and the future in these terms um
and defend these things with with our
capabilities while also hoping that we
never have to have you know hot conflict
anywhere. Along those lines, uh I have
to ask you uh recently you became famous
uh on Twitter at least uh for quitting
OpenAI. Uh you tweeted that you were
leaving and with your brief explanation
and got 7 million views, 50 I don't
know, 8,000 likes. Uh what happened? Why
did you leave OpenAI? What happened
there?
>> Yeah, I I hope so. What I said in my
tweet was
that I
have a lot of friends in the executive
side of OpenAI that I I care a lot
about. I think are really good people
and I feel that what happened with the
decision-m the speed of the decision-m
the governance and the lack of defined
guard rails around the announcement of
the department of war deal is not how I
thought it should have been done. Um,
and both of those things can be true.
And so my hope, Lenny, was that there's
a third path. Like you see a lot of
people just kind of going along with
what their company's doing. And then you
see some people that are kind of
scorched earth about it. Um, in this
case, that didn't make sense for me. I
didn't feel that way about the company.
OpenAI was isn't an amazing company. and
um I was able to help build a robotics
program there and and kind of attract
some of the top talent in robotics I
think in the world. And so I have a lot
of I don't know, you know, this is this
is a this is a group of people I care a
lot about. And you can also disagree
with friends and feel like what they did
isn't good and isn't isn't right. And um
that's where I that's where I ended up
and that's what I tweeted about. um it
was going to get reported on so I
tweeted before that happened.
>> This is a great opportunity to just just
whisper to me what Open Eye is working
on. What is what is this robotics device
that just like just between you and me?
>> Yeah, I wish I could say, you know,
Lenny, part of the fun of our job is we
get to see things before everybody else
does. But part of the flip side of that
is we can't talk about anything internal
or any IP. What I can say is the team's
really strong and um I was really really
grateful for the opportunity to to help.
But I also thought thought that after
what happened happened, it was time for
me to um to to I couldn't continue to
work there because you don't know what's
going to happen next time. And um my
hope was that my decision um made it
easier for other folks to talk about
what their boundaries were and hold them
and and and you know, we'll see what
happens there. So speaking of of team
building, this is something I definitely
wanted to ask you about. So as I said, I
asked a bunch of people what to talk to
you about and someone that I think it
was maybe a colleague, former colleague,
Mariana Senko. Did you work with her?
Okay,
>> she's a Yeah.
>> Okay, she's a friend. So she told me
that here's what she said about you.
That your brilliance as a leader lies in
hiring exceptional teams. I'd be curious
about the kinds of people that she finds
indispensable in an era where everyone
is concerned about their jobs. So talk
about what you've learned about just
what you look for when you're hiring
folks for your team.
>> Yeah, I I'm lucky that I've had a lot of
time, a lot of like reps basically on
hiring people. And so I have a a
strategy of of hiring great people. When
you're hiring for 0ero to one and new
things or new industries, and that's
what we're facing, I think with AI and
robots certainly, it's very new. You
can't count on having entirely people
who've done the exact same thing in past
lives because it doesn't exist. The
exact same thing doesn't exist. Maybe
you've got roboticists who've built a
thousand robots, but nobody that I'm
aware of has um built the type of robot
that can move through the world the way,
you know, I'm interested in in the
millions because it hasn't been done.
So, you have to start thinking about how
do you build a team that can do
something new. And the nice thing is
actually in robotics, um, self-driving
cars, autonomous vehicles is a really
good place to look because you've got
the sensing stack and you've got a lot
of the safety trade-offs actually and
it's a lot of the hard engineering, the
hardcore engineering. So, that's a place
that I looked. Um, obviously you want
some hardcore roboticists who can do,
you know, robot design from scratch. And
these are really people even though they
might have a degree in something,
they're really hybrid people. They're
generalist people. So, one of the one of
the key principles I'm looking for is a
lot of really strong generalists who can
adapt what they've learned in other
fields to a new field and people with a
lot of experience building. You want
some people who have experience building
the thing that you're building that's
new and some people who have experience
scaling other things that um to to hire
on. So, you need to look at that. And
then with young people, this is where it
gets really fun, Lenny, is the only AI
native people essentially who use AI so
natively that it's like baked into their
engineering process are 20 years old or
21 years old or 20. I mean, it's very
hard to find someone who's in their 30s
who can be truly fully AI native. And
so, we need these folks to teach us how
to think. and and I've had the
opportunity to work with a few folks in
that age range. They're approaching
their problem solving completely
differently because they're using AI
from the ground up for everything and um
they're much faster actually and it's
really fun to watch. So figuring out how
to get these AI natives to teach us the
rest of us how they think about AI when
it's you know we are you and I think I
can say are uh digital natives where we
grew up maybe there wasn't internet when
we were really young but we are the
generation that had the first you know
internet we we were teenagers and we are
the generation that had the first cell
phones really in scale and we are we're
an important generation because we had
the first I I remember freshman year at
Stanford we had the first data like
databases that you could access and you
could share movies on I think is what we
did and music on or whatever it was. But
this was new and so we were native in
these things and that gave us a lot of
oomph in creating new technologies for
it. But we have to accept that we're not
native in these new technologies and you
really want some folks who are hungry
and excited and want to learn who do
have these skills. That last bucket is a
very common trend on this podcast when
we talk about hiring, which is really
cool as a counternarrative to there's no
more jobs for young people. All the
junior roles are erased because of AI.
>> Yeah, I don't see it that way. I think
we need them. I I also think that we
need to build new technologists.
Like there's a there's the obvious
question of what happens if we don't
have teams that were have senior and
junior people. But I think what you find
when you actually build these teams is
you have to have both. you must have
both. The the team size just might be a
little bit smaller than it used to be.
Um when this AI revolution in hardware
happens, I don't know how that's going
to affect the teams. That will be really
interesting to watch.
>> So what I heard here is just uh look for
a generalists that can flex based on
whatever needs to be done. Uh some
mixture of specialist and like scaling
versus zero to one. And then these uh
the best term I've heard for this is
cracked new grads.
>> Yep. uh that are AI native essentially
that are just doing everything AI first.
>> Yep. And then what we didn't talk about
of course is mission alignment
>> which actually unifies a team. So if
everyone coming in is aligned to the
mission that helps a lot because
especially in the world of AI
researchers and hardware folks there's a
lot of miscommunication because we're
coming from such different worlds. And
so having a sense of we're all pulling
for the in the same direction is really
important. And then I I rely a lot,
Lenny, on my gut feel for people,
assuming everything else that I'm
looking for has been checked. So, um I
don't it's hard to talk about what that
means, but usually it's that spark that
you're looking for in someone that
they're genuinely motivated. They're
they're motivated by a desire to learn
and and by excellence. They're motivated
to learn from the people around them.
They're open to updating their point of
view based on new information. and they
they they want to they want to win. I
mean, this these are the things that
really matter when you're when you're
building a team.
>> Awesome. Okay, just a couple more
questions. Something I've been wanting
to ask for a long time is uh you've
worked with some of the most legendary
successful builders. Uh Steve Jobs,
Johnny IV, Mark Zuckerberg, Sam Alman.
You don't have to go through all four,
but just what's a lesson you learned
from as many of these folks that that
come to mind? So, we'll start with Sam
because most recently Sam is really good
at saying,"Why not more? Why not 100x or
10,000x?
You're thinking too small. Why not think
about this bigger?" And every time we
talked about something important, he
talked about that. And what I realized
is I was thinking too small in certain
areas and he was thinking globally. And
having that nudge from a leader who's
ambitious is really helpful, I think. So
that was that was a big thing that I
learned from him um about he's willing
to he's willing to go for it at high
volume and and invest um depending on um
meaning not high meaning hitting a lot
of people, you know, he's willing to
think in very big numbers. That was
really really foundationally important.
I think for Steve it's Steve Jobs is
just uh the bar he held for the company
and for technical talent and for
excellence was not uh wavering. It was
not it was it was up here and you were
either going to meet it or you weren't.
And that was something that kind of
washed through the whole company. When
you are a young ambitious person and you
hear that something's not good enough
that can be extremely motivating
actually. I'm like, you know, it's not
it doesn't quite hit the way you would
think. And if you tell somebody, hey,
this needs to be better. Like, you need
to spend more time on this. You need to
be more thoughtful about this or this is
not hitting our quality bar in a CAD
review or something, that's impactful,
and I think you never want to hear that
again. So, it's very, very motivating.
And then Mark Zuckerberg,
I think that he I have to say he ran a
company very, very well. So the way that
the the technical side of the company
operated,
the way that we had reviews, that
decisions were made,
the decisions were made at the lowest
level possible in the company to
maintain speed. Um I I underappreciated
how clean and well-run um the hardware
the the way that the hardware
organization interacted with the rest of
the company. It was very clear. This is
what we're going for. Um, we're going to
have this review. Um, we're going to
make a decision in this review. If you
can make the decision without the
review, you will do that. Here is are
the objectives for for this project. It
was really well executed. And I think
that's hard to do at a fast growing
company. It's very h uh hard to do at
that level. and having him and Andrew
Bosworth, the CTO, involved in the
technical decisions, able to read, you
know, reports that were maybe 20 pages
long, grock the trade-offs, understand
them, and be able to contribute to the
technical discussion. And that's just on
my thing that week and they're doing
that, you know, a hundred times that
month. Um, was was impressive and and
definitely something I learned from
them.
>> What an incredible set of experiences
and different types of places to work. I
don't know if they could be more
different all these different all these
places.
>> I know. And I think that that's where
why I'm I'm I'm looking for this 0ero to
one. And so when you're looking for a
0ero to1 opportunity, it's always going
to be in some place different
>> generally.
>> Uh you're going to be a hot commodity in
this market now that you're a free
agent. Uh but uh on the flip side of
that, I want to take us to fail corner.
Uh I feel like someone building
hardware, physical things has some great
fail stories. Is there one story of
something something you built, something
you worked on that that failed and
something you learned from that
experience?
>> This is a great question and not a
comfortable one. Um, one of the one of
my favorite failures was actually on the
Quest one. It was around EVT, so halfway
through the Quest one. And we found out
that we had gone from five cameras to
four for cost reduction. We talked a
little about about this. We needed to
reduce the price so more people could
buy them.
And what happened was it was right
before Christmas and I heard from the
lead on the team that does um computer
vision and he said, "Oh my gosh, the the
cameras the data from the cameras isn't
working and we can't get a lock on where
the person is using the headset." And so
we looked into it and we realized that
their interpretation of our spec and our
interpretation of our spec was
different. So uh in engineering we
usually use a plus or minus like it can
go up or down by in this case I think it
was 0.15 mm or something like that. Um
and in in his world he was used to
having a global it's within 1.5.15
mm and so we had a different
interpretation of the spec. Now, the
problem is that that our interpretation
of the spec meant that he couldn't meet
his his goals of being able to
understand where the headset was in
space. And so, we had to do a redesign.
And this is at EBT. So, this is pretty
much when you want the engineering to be
done.
>> This is a build.
>> It stands for when we compile the
hardware
>> for the first time with everything
that's supposed to be done. So final
components, final materials,
you're you're making the components on
the tools you're going to make them for
mass production instead of just
machining them. So it's a big deal. And
so what we had to do was um favor or
prioritize. We had four floating
cameras. We had to lock the bottom two
to each other and put them on a bracket
so that the relative distance from them
met the spec that he needed. and then
let the other two float. So this was an
architectural change and this was a
failure. I mean it was a failure in
understanding the spec. It was a failure
in um uh in the essentially the product
design but it was because of a
misunderstanding of the spec. And so we
were able to adapt. We actually kept the
build on time and we actually shipped
the product on time, but it was really
stressful. And it turned out that
actually the new design was better
because with a favored pair, you have
source of truth for the space and then
the other two cameras overlap onto that
source of truth. And so it worked well.
I thought um it was a good outcome, but
it was a scramble and certainly wish
that it that we caught it, you know,
four months earlier.
>> Another example of just how hardware is.
just you can't like you mess up a spec
and like all right here we wasted a week
building something that didn't work and
now it's like four months later still
having to redo the hardware supply
chain.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It was it was tricky.
>> So the Quest one that shipped was this
with the cameras moved.
>> Yeah.
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. If you look the cameras have
there's two cameras a little closer to
one another in the in the front of the
Quest at the bottom.
>> Wow. How did uh Bos and Zuck uh feel
about this?
>> I the fact that I don't remember
probably means Okay. Like um I think we
we we addressed it. We redesigned it. Um
we had to change the material on the
bracket. I think we had to make steel to
hold the tolerance we needed, but it
worked out and the price and the cost
and and yields were fine. So I think we
we adapted.
>> And that was the bestselling VR device
of all time. Is that right?
>> I think it was.
>> Okay.
>> I don't have the final sales number, but
>> Okay. Concerned. Okay. Uh Caitlyn, we've
covered so much ground. Is there
anything else you wanted to share?
Anything else you want to leave
listeners with? Either double down some
we've shared or anything else that just
like, oh, here's something I want to
share.
>> I think that this is probably one of the
most exciting times we're coming into.
And it's normal, I think, for all of us,
myself included, to be worried and
scared about it, but I also think it's
an opportunity for people to do
an extraordinary amount, have an
extraordinary amount of progress, and be
able to as an individual do more than
we've ever done before. And so that's
the side I'm trying to embrace. These
new tools,
these this new way of work is scary, but
if you embrace it and are daily using
these AI tools right now and daily
applying them to what you're doing,
you'll be at the forefront of whatever
comes next. And so I just want to
encourage everyone to be creative, use
these tools, have fun with them, um
figure out what the boundaries are, and
then every time a new model comes out,
test again because it's really important
to know what we're dealing with and
where these boundaries are. Um but I'm
also I've never been more excited about
the power of an individual.
>> Well, with that, Caitlyn, we've reached
our very exciting lightning round. I've
got five questions for you. Are you
ready?
>> I'm ready. First question, what are two
or three books that you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> I've been mostly reading the classics
lately. So, uh, Book of the New Sun is a
great fiction book, which I really
recommend. I think that's what it's
called. Um, I haven't read it in a
little while. I I I love Mrs. Dalloway,
actually. I think it's a very
interesting book about
transitions, and it was a post-war book
um, by Virginia Wolf. So I I really love
it and I think it's really wonderful. Um
I think Herodotus histories is pretty
incredible. He's wrong a lot but he's
also it's the first history book and in
many cases he's going and finding you
know firstirhand or secondhand uh
accounts of what happens. It's it's it's
a way to look into the world at a
completely different era than it is now.
So these are some books that I like and
uh I'll double check the the first the
title of the first one and email you.
But I think that's what it's called.
>> Okay. and we'll link to the correct one
in the show notes. Uh, favorite recent
movie or TV show that you have re really
enjoyed?
>> I am
really into Euphoria right now. I think
the new Euphoria. I'm I'm I'm interested
in the characters um and um figuring
that out uh what's going to happen
there.
>> The show's so stressful whenever I watch
>> it's a it's a melodrama. I think you
have to think about it as a soap opera
and then it's fun if you think about it
too literally.
>> Okay.
It's helpful. Uh, do you have a favorite
product you've recently discovered that
you really love? Could be like hardware,
could be an app, could be piece of
clothing, could be a gadget.
>> I really like Volibac. Um, the clothes.
Um, they make really interesting
clothes. They're essentially basing
their new clothes on material science.
So, they take new material science and
make them into clothes. Um, it's just a
fun brand to follow.
>> Vol.
>> V O L L E B A K. Vol.
>> Very cool. Do you have a favorite life
motto that you often come back to in
work or in life?
>> Have you seen that branch where there's
all these branches and then you're here
and then there's all these branches from
this point.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. You know who it was from? I didn't
know who. Um this is I think about it a
lot because it's very hard not to get
stuck in the future or the past and stay
kind of here. I have trouble with that.
But um that is a great reminder that you
know you get to pick every day. You get
to decide every day what you want to do.
And sometimes things don't go the way
that you want and sometimes you regret
what you did or sometimes you're proud
of what you did but it doesn't really
matter. What matters is what's right in
front of you.
>> We'll uh either show that image on the
screen as you say that or we'll link to
it in the show notes. It's so powerful.
Final question. Somebody that uh that
knows you well shared this really
interesting tidbit about you that you
hired a PhD to tutor you on the on the
staples of ancient Greece and Rome and
just get really nerdy about this stuff.
What's going on there? What drives you
to go so deep on these sorts of things?
>> This is like very nation nerd territory,
but I found this um list that the poet
Joseph Broski Brodzky wrote, which is a
list of English uh or a list of things
you should have read in order to have an
intelligent uh conversation in English.
And it is like an affected list like
it's in, you know, it's intense. It's
like the Old Testament, Gilgamesh, and
then all the way down through. But what
I found is it's a pretty good um
distillation of what we used to call the
western cannon. And that actually I
learned a lot in in my public school
education and in college, but I never
really learned from what you would
consider the Western canon. Um and so
this is kind of um in addition to that,
there's some some more newer newer um
books on the list. I find it just
fascinating to have something to work
off of. And what I found is as I got
into specifically the tragedies, the
Greek tragedies, I just didn't have
enough context to learn what I wanted to
learn. And just reading them, I didn't
have enough uptake. So I found an
incredible um uh postoc who's was
willing to tutor me. And I just get to
ask him all these questions. He's an
encyclopedia. He knows everything. I
could ask him what was happening in
Turkey at the time of this Greek, you
know, this tragedy that we're reading
and like what was happening in Athens
and like what this, you know, tragidian
might be responding to. Um, and and he
can answer the question. It's really fun
to have the ability to have that
sounding board.
>> So cool. It's so cool you did that. Even
though AI can do a lot of this, like
sometimes a human is much more
interesting to talk to you and and feels
better.
>> Yeah. I find reading and communicating
with AI is very helpful on the basics,
but then understanding what was
happening culturally and what the
significance of the work is is it wasn't
isn't adequate.
>> It's because we're uh we're not 20some
wrong.
>> I don't think it's wrong. We were just
not we didn't grow up this way. And I
imagine, you know, college students,
they would just not why would I do that?
I'm just I have Claude here.
>> Yeah.
>> So cool. I love that. Well, uh this was
incredible. You're amazing. Where can
folks find you online if they want to
find you? If they want to reach out, I
don't know, try to hire you. And uh what
can And then final question, how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> So I have a website which is just my
name.com. I'm also on LinkedIn. Um
people can help me. I think helping
imagine the future. This is not a single
player game. This is a multiplayer game.
Figuring out what future we want, what
we want it to look like, what we want
the human aspect to be in that future,
and what we we think we want to hold for
ourselves. um how we want to augment
ourselves like right now we're in this
dystopian niche where everything's just
you know hor it feels like the future is
horrible and the way to not have that is
to actually design our own future
together figure out what we want our
future to look like paint a picture in
fiction in literature in conversation
and then build that and um you know I
think that that's possible
>> I love that that's actually a message
that's come on a a couple of recent
podcast episodes. So, it's a really good
reminder. Uh, Caitlyn, thank you so much
for being here. It
>> was really fun, Lenny. Thanks for having
me.
>> Bye, everyone. Thank you so much for
listening. If you found this valuable,
you can subscribe to the show on Apple
Podcast, Spotify, or your favorite
podcast app. Also, please consider
giving us a rating or leaving a review
as that really helps other listeners
find the podcast. You can find all past
episodes or learn more about the show at
lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.